[Group 10] Health care for elders with diabetes
Jeremy Johnston - 999818014

Physical Activity Among Rural Older Adults With Diabetes
Arcury, T. A., Snively, B. M., Bell, R. A., Smith, S. L., Stafford, J. M., Wetmore-Arkader, L. K., & Quandt, S. A. (2006). Physical activity among rural older adults with diabetes. The Journal of Rural Health, 22(2), 164-168.
The article provides research on what types of exercise and how often the exercise is done for elders with diabetes.  The data was collected through a random sample survey of 701 elders with diabetes.  The average age of the participants was 74 and about half were female.  The overall results were that only 50% reported they did physical activity within the last year, while 42% reported they did not do any physical activity within the last week.  The most common forms of activity were walking, housework, and gardening.  A limiting factor to the study includes restriction to one area of North Carolina thus losing generalization.  Lastly, in the discussion, it concludes that efforts should be made to increase the physical activity of elder with diabetes.

Improving self-care among older patients with type II diabetes: The "sixty something?" study
Glasgow, R. E., Toobert, D. J., Hampson, S. E., Brown, J. E., Lewinsohn, P. M., & Donnelly, J. (1992). Improving self-care among older patients with type II diabetes: The "sixty something?" study. Patient Education and Counseling, 19(1), 61-74. doi:10.1016/0738-3991(92)90102-O
The article provides research on self-care for elders with type-2 diabetes.  The participants went through a seminar that focused on dietary and exercise self-care behaviours along with monitoring their glucose levels.  This was due to most elders specifying those were the areas they needed help the most.  The seminars lasted about 8 weeks with weekly goals, exercises and dietary planning.  The research found that those that took part in the seminar first greatly benefitted from it.  From weight, to minutes of daily activity, to average days exercise, they all improved.  It was concluded that older diabetic patients can improve self-care overcoming outstanding lifestyle habits, and short-term group programs focusing on improving self-care can be successful.



Cognitive dysfunction in older subjects with diabetes mellitus: impact on diabetes self-management and use of care services
Sinclair, A. J., Girling, A. J., & Bayer, A. J. (2000). Cognitive dysfunction in older subjects with diabetes mellitus: impact on diabetes self-management and use of care services. Diabetes research and clinical practice, 50(3), 203-212.
The article provides research about the cognitive ability of elders with type-2 diabetes.  A total of 396 diabetic elders participated in the study along with 393 non-diabetic elder to compared the difference in cognitive ability.  It was determined that those in the diabetes group had much greater cognitive dysfunction than those without diabetes.  It was also found that those with higher cognitive dysfunction relied on others more for the management of their health.

My aspect of the problem space was self-care for elder with diabetes.  I wanted to know how well they can take care of themselves and see if there is work needed to be done in that specific area.  Article one told me about how often elders with diabetes maintain their daily activities in exercise which is needed ever more so having diabetes.  It is clear they need help keeping up with daily activity and exercise from the article.  The second article showed me exactly how much elder with diabetes improve their health when having an outside source intervene and help them.  Having a weekly activity and reminders on keeping their health intact benefits them tremendously.  The final article taught me that if we want to make something to help the health management of elders with diabetes, we need to focus more on the ones that can somewhat manage their own health.  Those that rely heavy on others are probably not going to be able to switch to monitoring their own health thus not likely going to be able to use whatever we create.

Bibliography:
Arcury, T. A., Snively, B. M., Bell, R. A., Smith, S. L., Stafford, J. M., Wetmore-Arkader, L. K., & Quandt, S. A. (2006). Physical activity among rural older adults with diabetes. The Journal of Rural Health, 22(2), 164-168.
Glasgow, R. E., Toobert, D. J., Hampson, S. E., Brown, J. E., Lewinsohn, P. M., & Donnelly, J. (1992). Improving self-care among older patients with type II diabetes: The "sixty something?" study. Patient Education and Counseling, 19(1), 61-74. doi:10.1016/0738-3991(92)90102-O
Sinclair, A. J., Girling, A. J., & Bayer, A. J. (2000). Cognitive dysfunction in older subjects with diabetes mellitus: impact on diabetes self-management and use of care services. Diabetes research and clinical practice, 50(3), 203-212.
