Hi, my name is Jeremy Johnston and I am a third year computer science specialist.  I am a pretty friendly, easy-going, hard working fellow. I work very well in groups as a lot of computer science projects  I have programming knowledge in C, Java, and Python.  My goal for this course is to learn more about the development process of computer-related ideas.  Of course, a good mark is never a bad thing.  For work-style, I'm pretty laid back though I'd prefer not waiting until the last day to get the work done.  Looking for group members that are willing to put effort in and are friendly. I'm indifferent about entering the international student design competition.


For group work, I've had some mixed success.  Most of the time it works out where everyone pulls their weight and works cooperatively.  However, there have been a few times where there is one group member that misses all of the meetings which is frusterating.  I'm don't mind meeting online or in person but the group members should attend most if not all the meetings possible.  In my experience, having a leader just to suggest meeting times and keep track of information is a good thing, though I don't generally take the leader position unless needed.  In groups, communication is vital for helping each other and keeping us on track so having a skype, facebook, google group is generally needed.  Dividing up work has been pretty simple, people just pick what they are better suited for, and if nobody is good at one part, we all work on it together.  Any conflicts in design ideas or answers are simply solved by a vote after discussing both options.


I'm not too particular on a problem space, but something that could help people focus on important tasks rather than daily ones.  For example, diet, health and fitness are all daily concerns so figuring out something that makes us less focused on those problems, that does the stuff for us automatically would be nice.  These problems affect everyone but I would like to target adults-young adults as they are more busy and need to focus on work.




The reddit enhancement suite has everything that reddit alone is missing.  Though the enhancements may not be entirely revolutionary, they make the reddit experience so much nicer.  It lets you view posts without having to jump to a new page, it loads the next pages just by scrolling, keyboard navigation,  new comment count and so much more.  If anyone uses reddit and doesn't have this addon, they need to get it right away.  It makes viewing reddit much more simpler and elegant.

So as I have said, the reddit enhancement suite adds so much to it is pretty much needed for anyone who visits reddit.  On of my biggest problems with reddit was how to even look at any part of the post, you had to open up a whole new page.  This is bothersome since if you want to look just a picture for a bit or see if the post is worth looking at, there is a lot of unnecessary effort put in by the user.  With RES, you simple click a box on the page which expands to show the main post.  No having to open up new pages or go to different websites to have a quick view of the posts.  Another benefit is simply scrolling to the bottom of the page loads the next one.  It little features like this that make the whole reddit experience much better.  Also, showing how many new comment in a post that you have looked at before is awesome because you get to see exactly how much bigger the thread has gotten and if it is worth rereading through the comments.  There are many more little improvements that RES adds that make it worth at least looking at.

Pretty much any site with a forum, especially the likes of reddit, can benefit from this innovation.  It shows really what features the users want when looking through forum sites.  It is understandable that many sites that have a forum might not consider it their top priority, but even adding just some of it's features will go a long way.  It makes navigating easier, thus the user happier which should be one of the main goals for any company.  Since almost every company has a site and most have some sort of forum for help, looking at some of these changes will greatly benefit them.

Link to RES: http://redditenhancementsuite.com/

Link to RES features: http://redditenhancementsuite.com/features.html