Group 10 [The Elderly and Their Interactions Via Technology]
Joseph Lee - g4joseph - 999958611

Cognitive Support for Elders Through Technology:

	The elderly heavily rely on some method to go through their home activities in their daily lives, as they are often found alone once they are at a certain age. Many of them rely on the use of modern technology to help with them with basic activities such as bathing, medication regimen, or communication. However some of the problems can be hindered from their memory, or cognative capabilities. With their memory being weak, they may forget often how to use something, mainly because the method is too difficult. It is like them listening to a list on a telephone menu, because it is long and sometimes confusing, they will not remember every single content. Some technology that is used to monitor medication is a Technology Coach, it monitors what a patient is doing and corrects them if they made an error in her procedure. Simple technological inventions are often found to be more effective than flashy, comprehensive devices. The elderly are not driven away from technology, as they are just mere late adopters. Whether they care to learn depends on how useful the technology is.


Increasing elder consumer interactions with information technology:

	The advances in technology can branch of the an advance in health care, which increases the longivitiy of human life. Many elderly, or older consumers have very limited exposure to this technology, and it may deny them of the benefits. Seeing how the internet is an integral part of life, only 15% of the worlds senior citizen population use the internet, which shows the involved they are with technology. To market towards the elderly, we cannot rely on terms that they don't know, such as the brands of the company, as many of them are not familiar with it. Rather, the factor that will appeal to them is the promotion toward the elderly interaction. Specifically, two main factors are the usefulness and the ease of use of the device. The seniors are sitting on disposable income and it is rarely the case that they do not have money for it, just not familiar with the technology. 


Acceptance and use of health information technology by community-dwelling elders:

	The number of elderly adults in the world is rising due to the increasing population and the increase in technology. Life expectancy is raised because the healthcare systems are improving and the technology that comes with it. A large barrier the elderly are faced with in life is the use of the internet, and being behind on your skills with the internet can leave you behind in life. Therefore, since the elderly are not customed to the internet, most technological devices that are catered to them are mostly assistive devices, which are not actively used by the seniors but more monitored for them. Gerotechnology, the study of interactions between technology and the elderly, shows that assistive devices can replace or supplement personal assistance in their life, making them more less reliant on others. The biggest factors of why the elderly may be skeptical is their concerns for user friendliness, lack of human contact, the need for specialized training, and privacy. On the other hand, there are many monitoring devices right now that show to improve the quality of life, for example smoke detectors or door monitors. Research shows that monitored technology improve older person' autonomy, and even memory (electronic memory aids). 


In conclusion: technology needs to be more accessible to the elderly, and it needs to appeal to them rather than repel them away from it, as they can reap from the benefits in their quality of life.


Citation:

Rogers, W. A., & Fisk, A. D. (2006). Cognitive support for elders through technology. Generations, 30(2), 38-43. Retrieved from http://search.proquest.com/docview/212225771?accountid=14771

Hough, M., & Kobylanski, A. (2009). Increasing elder consumer interactions with information technology. Journal of Consumer Marketing, 26(1), 39-48. doi:10.1108/07363760910927037

Fischer, S. H., David, D., Crotty, B. H., Dierks, M., & Safran, C. (2014). Acceptance and use of health information technology by community-dwelling elders. International Journal of Medical Informatics, 83(9), 624-635. doi:10.1016/j.ijmedinf.2014.06.005