Jhony Miller Campanha - 1001885123
Group 10: The EMJs

What patients want: relevant health informations technology for diabetes self-management
	This paper studied how technology can help patients with diabetes type 2, trying to understand their likes and dislikes of using technology as a support tool for diabetes self-management. In order to achieve that, they took some diabetics in two different type 2 self-management studies. On overall, most participants showed a preference for face-to-face contact instead of using some technology to help them. However, most of them would be interested in using technology as a supporting tool to work as a reminder and to facilitate their communication with the doctors and peers. Furthermore, older patients would also be interested in getting technical support from technology. Considering that the most of the treatment for diabetes happens outside clinics, having the doctors accomplishing the patients’ routine is almost impossible, and that is why is so important to develop some useful programs which can deliver support as needed. E-health applications, which are programs that can help diabetics to self manage their health condition, can be useful for dietary practices, physical activity, medication taking, clinical outcomes and psychosocial variables. Having an e-health intervention can be useful to reach individuals through geographic barriers. The authors pointed out some of the obstacles to make users fully adopt technology as a support tool, such as intrusiveness, cost and loss of interest. Participants of the research should access the project website and some other online helpful sites and discuss their likes and dislikes. The results show that most of the participants prefer an interactive voice response in the program instead of a pre-recorded message. Moreover, users said that they would like to have all informations in the same place, making it easy to find, and that they want a technology tailored to them, which gives what they really need considering their likes and dislikes (for instance, type of food or exercise). Researchers also pointed out the importance to use technology to easily connect with doctors and the healthcare team; by using this type of function, users can report progress and receive feedback from specialists and peers. Moreover, anonymity can help those ones who have some fears or feel embarrassed on questioning. An important factor analyzed was that participants older than age 65 would like to be able to choose colours and size of texts.

Adherence to evidence-based guidelines among diabetes self-management apps
	In this paper, researchers critically analyzed different apps on Apples’ App Store trying to find empirically supported apps. They argue that the majority of apps for diabetes self-management are not empirically supported. In order to support their study, they used the behaviours recommended by the American Association of Diabetes Educators. Health eating: the app has some food tracking and suggestion for diabetics. Monitoring: the app allows users to track anything related to diabetes (for instance, glucose levels or blood pressure). Taking medications: the app provide a reminders system with information of the time and the dosages of the medication. Problem solving: the app offers steps to solve some possible problems that they can have during then treatment. Reducing skills: the app is informative about diabetes and provides the ability to track possible problems. Healthy coping: the app has information about self-care treatment and how to find help when needed. The authors start their research collecting apps which could help individuals on diabetes self-management, and then they analyzed all the collected apps and classified them by their adherence to the recommended behaviours. They found that each app has a low number of recommended behaviours (median = 2). The most common behaviours are: health eating, monitoring and the medication, while the least common is healthy coping. Over 200 diabetes self-management apps were found for this research, which suggests that a mobile intervention can be helpful to reduce the diabetes risks. 20% of all the dowloaded apps allowed users to create a chart with their information from diet and activities; which can be easier for users to understand the results. The authors argue that diabetics “cannot rely on common sense”, since they are suffering from a dangerous condition, and that is why developers should give some attention on giving alternative ways for people with diabetes. Having a collaboration between the researchers, who can find and provide empirically supported theories, developers, who can understand the technology limitations, and health professionals, who could provide useful information and persuade patients to use those applications, is a good way to have really useful applications to help people with diabetes. 

Support for Diabetes Using Technology: A Pilot Study to Improve Self-management
	This paper tried to determine if self-management applications for people with diabetes can help to increase self-management applications efficiency, the participation of people in these self-management ways to treat, and if they improve diabetes control. The study was based in the Self-Determination Theory, a theory that says that autonomy, competence and relatedness to others are the three main psychological human needs. The authors said that “people are more likely to adopt healthy behaviors when these basic needs are supported”. In order to achieve their objective, researchers had two groups of people with diabetes and randomly gave iPads for one group and journals for the other group. The experiment was done in two parts, and after the first one the groups changed the way they were using to self-manage (Who had iPads in the first part, used the journals in the second one, and vice versa). Both groups should use either the iPads or the journals to help them to self-manage their health condition by monitoring the blood glucose, having an eating plan, exercising and correctly taking the medication. 65% of the participants of the study were over age 50. The authors found out that the group using the iPads first had a higher self-efficacy score. The self-management score slightly decrease with the group using the iPads first when they started to use the journals. Even though the results showed no huge differences between the usage of the iPads and the journals for self-management, users gave more positive comments for using the iPads. Participants also found useful the summary of activities that they could find at the iPads. The researchers said that we need more research in order to find the best technology to help these patients.

	Diabetes self-management between seniors is a huge field of study. Since lack of contact with technology until the health issues which need to be measured, the number of different aspects in this field is huge. In this paper, a literature review was done in order to get information about what seniors with diabetes need help with. Considering their health issues that need attention (for example, glucose levels or blood pressure) and their preferences in what they would like to have easy access, we can have a specific idea of what we should give attention for our work. A desired technology is one which gives reminders for time and dosages of the medications, and facilitate the communication with health professionals and peers; moreover, it needs to be easy to use and to find the information needed (King et. al, 2012). Attending the basic human needs can bring good results for the project (Hunt et. al, 2014). Following the behaviours recommended by the American Association of Diabetes Educators is also a strategy to have a better result in this project. Those behaviours are empirically based, which increase the reliability of any project who cares about them (Breland et. al, 2013). In this project, we intend to work on those recommended behaviours, but focusing on older users. Usually, older users have some health issues behind the diabetes, which gives us another issue to care about. We need to care about colours, font size, font style, button size and anything else which could make harder their experience using the application. 

Breland, J. Y., Yeh, V. M., & Yu, J. (2013). Adherence to evidence-based guidelines among diabetes self-management apps. Translational behavioral medicine, 3(3), 277-286.
King, D. K., Toobert, D. J., Portz, J. D., Strycker, L. A., Doty, A., Martin, C., ... & Glasgow, R. E. (2012). What patients want: relevant health information technology for diabetes self-management. Health and Technology, 2(3), 147-157.
Hunt, C. W., Sanderson, B. K., & Ellison, K. J. (2014). Support for Diabetes Using Technology: A Pilot Study to Improve Self-management. Medsurg Nursing, 23(4), 231-237.


